jndjvnfjbjfnjvndjvndjvfn
cndvdnvfdv
ddfdfd
dfdfdfd
fdfdfdfd
fdfdfdfd
fdfdfdf
fdfdfd
We work in partnership with a wide range of professionals in delivering our many programmes and projects.

Bookseller

Booktrust supports booksellers through prizes, campaigns and literary promotions which throw the spotlight on different genres, authors and audiences throughout the year. For many of these we offer point of sale materials like bookmarks and posters as well as ideas and booklists to order or download for free. 

 

Early Years Professional

It's never too early to start a child on their reading journey. Early years professionals are crucial in helping Booktrust to deliver Bookstart, the national early-intervention literacy programme. Bookstart offers the gift of free books and parental guidance materials to babies and preschool children before they start school.  We offer information and resources to help get involved with Bookstart and a range of other inspirational and practical guides that will help you give early years children and their parents a positive start on their reading journey and critical early language skills through booksharing.

 

Health Professional

Reading and writing can have a huge impact on health and wellbeing for individuals and communities. Health visitors are a key delivery partner for Bookstart using their expertise and access to families at a crucial stage to gift the packs. We also offer Booktouch and Bookshine, for blind and deaf children aged 0-4 years as well as Bookmark our web resource, which provides a wealth of information, books and advice on disability and children's books. 

 

Librarian

Libraries are at the heart of Booktrust's vision to empower people through reading and writing. We work with public and school librarians across many of our programmes, providing free resources and activities around our reading programmes for children including Bookstart Bear Club, Bookstart's Rhyme Challenge, Booktime, Booked Up and our many literary prizes and awards.

 

Local Authority Professional

Booktrust works in partnership with every local authority in England to deliver our 'free books' reading programmes as well as the Letterbox Club for looked-after children. Local authorities support the delivery of our Bookstart book packs through Bookstart Coordinators via libraries, health visitors, children's centres, primary and secondary schools, pupils referral units, special schools and other specialist agencies working with harder-to-reach groups and communities.

 

Policy makers
We work closely with government departments in England, Wales and Northern Ireland responsible for education, culture, skills and health. Our work helps to inform government policy and shapes future agendas in the fields of literacy, family learning and health and wellbeing.
We also work closely with Arts Council England in supporting the delivery of 'Great Art for Everyone'.

 

Press

Our press campaigns and close relationships with the media help us to be a national voice for books and reading through national, regional, broadcast and online coverage.

 

Booktrust's press office provides information on the latest prizes and events, interviews with key Booktrust spokespeople and partners, images, statistics and evaluation. Journalists come to us for expert opinion on a wide range of issues including access to books, reading for pleasure, health and wellbeing and literacy.

 

Publisher

Publisher support for our 'free books' reading programmes enables us to deliver a broad range of high-quality books and resources directly into the hands of those who benefit the most. Booktrust's literary promotions and prizes including the Children's Laureate, help to bring awareness and attention to different authors and genres, from short story collections and translated fiction to picture books.

 

Teacher

Booktrust works with every primary and secondary school in England to deliver our 'free books' reading programmes (Booktime and Booked Up). Our professional packs of books and teaching resources are hugely popular with teachers as they encourage wider reading, support creative thinking and development, all of which help children's attainment across the board.

 

Writer

Booktrust provides a wealth of material for those of all ages and backgrounds who want to get involved with writing. This ranges from an up-to-date database of writing competitions to expert tips and advice from publishers and our online writer in residence. Whether you're a complete novice or a published author, there is something here to help you make the most of your writing.

 

For further resources relating to a specific profession please visit our Resources section
